Advantages of MongoDB over RDBMS
Schema less - MongoDB is a document database in which one collection holds different documents. Number of fields, content and size of the document can differ from one document to another.

Structure of a single object is clear.

No complex joins.

Deep query-ability. MongoDB supports dynamic queries on documents using a document-based query language that's nearly as powerful as SQL.

Tuning.

Ease of scale-out - MongoDB is easy to scale.

Conversion/mapping of application objects to database objects not needed.

Uses internal memory for storing the (windowed) working set, enabling faster access of data.

Why Use MongoDB?
Document Oriented Storage - Data is stored in the form of JSON style documents.

Index on any attribute

Replication and high availability

Auto-sharding

Rich queries

Fast in-place updates

Professional support by MongoDB

Where to Use MongoDB?
Big Data
Content Management and Delivery
Mobile and Social Infrastructure
User Data Management
Data Hub





Some considerations while designing Schema in MongoDB

Design your schema according to user requirements.

Combine objects into one document if you will use them together. Otherwise separate them (but make sure there should not be need of joins).

Duplicate the data (but limited) because disk space is cheap as compare to compute time.

Do joins while write, not on read.

Optimize your schema for most frequent use cases.

Do complex aggregation in the schema.

Example
Suppose a client needs a database design for his blog/website and see the differences between RDBMS and MongoDB schema design. Website has the following requirements.

Every post has the unique title, description and url.
Every post can have one or more tags.
Every post has the name of its publisher and total number of likes.
Every post has comments given by users along with their name, message, data-time and likes.
On each post, there can be zero or more comments.
In RDBMS schema, design for above requirements will have minimum three tables.